////
Copyright © 2016-2021 The Eclipse Foundation, Cirrus Link Solutions, and others

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 which is available at
https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0

_Sparkplug™ and the Sparkplug™ logo are trademarks of the Eclipse Foundation_
////

[[principles]]
== Principles

[[principles_pub_sub]]
=== Pub/Sub

This section discusses the generic topology shown in Figure 3 – Simple MQTT Infrastructure
identifying how each of the components of the infrastructure interacts.

At the simplest level, there are only two components required as shown below. An MQTT client and an
MQTT server. With proper credentials, any MQTT client can connect to the MQTT server without any
notion of other MQTT client applications that are connected, and can issue subscriptions to any MQTT
messages that it might be interested in as well as start publishing any message containing data that
it has. This is one of the principal notions of IIoT, that is the decoupling of intelligent devices
from any direct connection to any one consumer application.

image:extracted-media/media/image6.png[image,width=311,height=116]
Figure 2 - Simple MQTT Infrastructure

[[principles_report_by_exception]]
=== Report by Exception
TODO: Github Issue #52

[[principles_continuous_session_awareness]]
=== Continuous Session Awareness

In any network architecture, network connection *_State_* is important. In SCADA/IIoT, connection
*_State_* is extremely important. *State* is the session awareness of the MQTT EoN and the MQTT
Server. The very reason that most SCADA Host systems in this market sector are still using legacy
poll/response protocols to maintain a notion of the *_State_* of the connection between the SCADA
application and the connected devices. “_I poll, I get a response, I know the *State* of all the I/O
points, but now I must poll again because that *State* may have changed.”_

Many implementations of solutions using MQTT treat it as a simple, stateless, pub/sub state machine.
This is quite viable for IoT and some IIoT applications, however it is not taking advantage of the
full capability of MQTT based infrastructures.

One of the primary applications for MQTT as it was originally designed was to provide reliable SCADA 
communications over VSAT topologies. Due to propagation delay and cost, it was not feasible to use a 
poll/response protocol. Instead of a poll/response protocol where all the data was sent in response
to every poll, MQTT was used to publish information from remote sites only when the data changed.
This technique is sometimes called Report by Exception or RBE. But for RBE to work properly in
real-time SCADA, the “state” of the end device needs to be always known. In other words, SCADA/IIoT
host could only rely on RBE data arriving reliably if it could be assured of the state of the MQTT
session.

The Sparkplug™ specification defines the use of the MQTT v3.1.1 and v5.0 “Last Will and Testament”
feature to provide MQTT session state information to any other interested MQTT client in the
infrastructure. The session state awareness is implemented around a set of defined BIRTH and DEATH
topic namespace and payload definitions in conjunction with the MQTT connection “Keep Alive” timer.

[[principles_birth_and_death_certificates]]
=== Birth and Death Certificates
TODO: Github Issue #53

[[principles_persistent_vs_non_persistent_connections]]
=== Persistent vs Non-Persistent Connections

Persistent connections are intended to remain connected to the MQTT infrastructure at all times.
They never send an MQTT DISCONNECT control packet during normal operation. This fact lets the
_Primary Host Application_ provide the real-time state of every persistent node in the
infrastructure within the configured MQTT Keep Alive period using the BIRTH/DEATH mechanisms defined
above.

But in some use cases, such as sending GPS coordinates for asset tracking or other IOT applications
with periodic data from sensors, MQTT enabled devices do not need to remain connected to the MQTT
infrastructure. In these use cases, all the Device needs to do is to issue an MQTT DISCONNECT
control packet prior to going offline to leave the MQTT infrastructure “gracefully”. In this case an
MQTT device or associated DEATH certificate will most normally not be seen. System designers just
need to be aware that the metric in the _Primary Host Application_ will represent “Last Known Good”
values with a time stamp of this data where the current state of the of the MQTT Device is not a
real-time indication. The _Primary Host Application_ metric time stamp values can be used to
determine when the values from this node were last updated.

Non-persistent MQTT Enabled Devices should still register a proper DEATH Certificate upon the
establishment of an MQTT session. In this manner, the _Primary Host Application_ can still have a 
good representation of last known good process variable versus the fact that the MQTT session was
terminated prior to the EoN node being able to complete its transaction.
