////
Copyright © 2016-2020 The Eclipse Foundation, Cirrus Link Solutions, and others

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 which is available at
https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
////

_Sparkplug™ and the Sparkplug™ logo are trademarks of the Eclipse Foundation_

[[introduction]]
== Introduction

[[introduction_rationale_and_use_case]]
=== Rationale and Use Case

Eclipse Sparkplug™ provides an open and freely available specification for how Edge of Network (EoN) gateways or 
native MQTT enabled end devices and MQTT Applications communicate bi-directionally within an MQTT 
Infrastructure. This document details the structure and implementation requirements for Sparkplug compliant 
MQTT Client implementations on both devices and applications.

It is recognized that MQTT is used across a wide spectrum of application solution use cases, and an almost 
indefinable variation of network topologies. To that end the Sparkplug specification strives to accomplish 
the three following goals.

[[introduction_define_an_mqtt_topic_namespace]]
==== Define an MQTT Topic Namespace

As noted many times in this document one of the many attractive features of MQTT is that is does not specify 
any required Topic Namespace within its implementation. This fact has meant that MQTT has taken a dominant 
position across a wide spectrum of IoT solutions. The intent of the Sparkplug pecification is to identify 
and document a Topic Namespace that is well thought out and optimized for the SCADA/IIoT solution sector.

[[introduction_define_mqtt_state_management]]
==== Define MQTT State Management

One of the unique aspects of MQTT is that it was originally designed for real time SCADA systems to help 
reduce data latency over bandwidth limited and often unreliable network infrastructure. In many 
implementations though the full benefit of this “Continuous Session Awareness” is not well understood, or not 
even implemented. The intent of the Sparkplug specification is to take full advantage of MQTT’s native 
Continuous Session Awareness capability as it applies to real time SCADA/IIoT solutions.

[[introduction_define_the_mqtt_payload]]
==== Define the MQTT Payload

Just as the MQTT specification does not dictate any particular Topic Namespace, nor does it dictate any 
particular payload data encoding. The intent of the Sparkplug specification is to strive to define payload 
encoding architectures that remain true to the original, lightweight, bandwidth efficient, low latency 
features of MQTT while adding modern encoding schemes targeting the SCADA/IIoT solution space.

Sparkplug has defined an approach where the Topic Namespace can aid in the determination of the encoding 
scheme of any particular payload. Currently there are two (2) Sparkplug defined encoding schemes that this 
specification supports. The first one is the Sparkplug A encoding scheme based on the very popular Kura open 
source Google Protocol Buffer definition. The second one is the Sparkplug B encoding scheme that provides a 
richer data model developed with the feedback of many system integrators and end user customers using MQTT.

[[introduction_background]]
==== Background

MQTT was originally designed as a message transport for real-time SCADA systems. The MQTT message transport 
specification does *not* specify the Topic Namespace to use nor does it define the Payload representation of 
the data being published and/or subscribed to. In addition to this, since the original use case for MQTT was 
targeting real-time SCADA, there are mechanisms defined to provide the *state* of an MQTT session such that 
SCADA/Control HMI application can monitor the current state of any MQTT device in the infrastructure. As with 
the Topic Namespace and Payload the way state information is implemented and managed within the MQTT 
infrastructure is not defined. All of this was intentional within the original specification to provide 
maximum flexibility across any solution sector that might choose to use MQTT infrastructures.

But at some point, for MQTT based solutions to be interoperable within a given market sector, the Topic 
Namespace, Payload representation and session state must be defined. The intent and purpose of the Sparkplug 
specification is to define an MQTT Topic Namespace, payload, and session state management that can be applied 
generically to the overall IIoT market sector, but specifically meets the requirements of real-time 
SCADA/Control HMI solutions. Meeting the operational requirements for these systems will enable MQTT based 
infrastructures to provide more valuable real-time information to Line of Business and MES solution 
requirements as well.

The purpose of the Sparkplug specification is to remain true to the original notion of keeping the Topic 
Namespace and message sizes to a minimum while still making the overall message transactions and session 
state management between MQTT devices and MQTT SCADA/IIoT applications simple, efficient and easy to 
understand and implement.

[[introduction_intellectual_property_rights]]
=== Intellectual Property Rights

[[introduction_eclipse_foundation_specification_license]]
==== Eclipse Foundation Specification License

 TODO - Verify this with the Eclipse Foundation

By using and/or copying this document, or the Eclipse Foundation document from which this statement is 
linked, you (the licensee) agree that you have read, understood, and will comply with the following terms 
and conditions:

Permission to copy, and distribute the contents of this document, or the Eclipse Foundation document from 
which this statement is linked, in any medium for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, 
provided that you include the following on ALL copies of the document, or portions thereof, that you use:

* link or URL to the original Eclipse Foundation document.
* All existing copyright notices, or if one does not exist, a notice (hypertext is preferred, but a textual 
  representation is permitted) of the form: "Copyright © [$date-of-document]
  "Eclipse Foundation, Inc. \<<url to this license>> "

Inclusion of the full text of this NOTICE must be provided. We request that authorship attribution be 
provided in any software, documents, or other items or products that you create pursuant to the 
implementation of the contents of this document, or any portion thereof.

No right to create modifications or derivatives of Eclipse Foundation documents is granted pursuant to this 
license, except anyone may prepare and distribute derivative works and portions of this document in software 
that implements the specification, in supporting materials accompanying such software, and in documentation 
of such software, PROVIDED that all such works include the notice below. HOWEVER, the publication of 
derivative works of this document for use as a technical specification is expressly prohibited.

The notice is:

"Copyright (c) 2016-2020 Eclipse Foundation. This software or document includes material copied from or 
derived from the Sparkplug Specification: https://www.eclipse.org/tahu/spec/Sparkplug%20Topic%20Namespace%20and%20State%20ManagementV2.2-with%20appendix%20B%20format%20-%20Eclipse.pdf

[[introduction_disclaimers]]
==== Disclaimers

THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND THE ECLIPSE FOUNDATION MAKE NO 
REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE 
DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE; NOR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY 
THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.

THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND THE ECLIPSE FOUNDATION WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE 
CONTENTS THEREOF.

The name and trademarks of the copyright holders or the Eclipse Foundation may NOT be used in advertising or 
publicity pertaining to this document or its contents without specific, written prior permission. Title to 
copyright in this document will at all times remain with copyright holders.

[[introduction_organization_of_the_sparkplug_specification]]
=== Organization of the Sparkplug Specification

[[introduction_terminology]]
=== Terminology

[[introduction_infrastructure_components]]
==== Infrastructure Components

This section details the infrastructure components implemented.

image:extracted-media/media/image5.png[image,width=660,height=314]
Figure 1 - MQTT SCADA Infrastructure

[[introduction_mqtt_servers]]
===== MQTT Server(s)

MQTT enabled infrastructure requires that one or more MQTT Servers are present in the infrastructure. The 
only requirement that the Sparkplug specification places on the selection of an MQTT Server component in the 
architecture is it is required to be compliant with the latest MQTT V3.1.1 specification and is sized to 
properly manage all MQTT message traffic.

One can implement the use (if required) of multiple MQTT servers for redundancy, high availability, and 
scalability within any given infrastructure.

[[introduction_mqtt_edge_od_network_node]]
===== MQTT Edge of Network (EoN) Node (aka Edge Node)

In the context of this specification, an MQTT Edge of Network (EoN) Node is any v3.1.1 compliant MQTT Client 
application that manages an MQTT Session and provides the physical and/or logical gateway functions required 
to participate in the Topic Namespace and Payload definitions described in this document. The EoN node is 
responsible for any local protocol interface to existing legacy devices (PLCs, RTUs, Flow Computers, Sensors, 
etc.) and/or any local discrete I/O, and/or any logical internal process variables(PVs).

[[introduction_device_sensor]]
===== Device/Sensor 

The Device/Sensor represents any physical or logical device connected to the MQTT EoN node providing any 
data, process variables or metrics.

[[introduction_mqtt_enabled_device]]
===== MQTT Enabled Device(Sparkplug)

This represents any device, sensor, or hardware that directly connects to MQTT infrastructure using a 
compliant MQTT 3.1.1 connection with the payload and topic notation as outlined in this Sparkplug 
specification. Note that it will be represented as an EoN node in the Sparkplug topic payload.

[[introduction_scada_iiot_host]]
===== SCADA/IIoT Host

The SCADA/IIoT Host Node is any MQTT Client application that subscribes to and publishes messages defined in 
this document. In typical SCADA/IIoT infrastructure implementations, there will be only one *Primary* 
SCADA/IIoT Host Node responsible for the monitoring and control of a given group of MQTT EoN nodes. 
Sparkplug does support the notion of multiple critical Host applications. This does not preclude any number 
of additional MQTT SCADA/IIoT Nodes participating in the infrastructure that are in either a pure monitoring 
mode, or in the role of a hot standby should the Primary MQTT SCADA/IIoT Host go offline.

[[introduction_mqtt_application_node]]
===== MQTT Application Node 

An MQTT Application Node is any non-primary MQTT SCADA/IIoT Client application that consumes the real-time 
messages or any other data being published with proper permission and security.

[[introduction_normative_references]]
=== Normative References
 TODO: Github Issue #43
 
[[introduction_non_normative_references]]
=== Non Normative References
 TODO: Github Issue #44

[[introduction_security]]
=== Security

[[introduction_authentication]]
==== Authentication

There are several levels of security and access control configured within an MQTT infrastructure. From a pure 
MQTT client perspective, the client does need to provide a unique Client ID, and an optional Username and 
Password.

[[introduction_autorization]]
==== Authorization

Although access control is not mandated in the MQTT specification for use in MQTT Server implementations, 
Access Control List (ACL) functionality is available for most MQTT Server implementations. The ACL of an 
MQTT Server implementation is used to specify which Topic Namespace any MQTT Client can subscribe to and 
publish on. Examples are provided on how to setup and manage MQTT Client credentials and some considerations 
on setting up proper ACL’s on the MQTT Servers.

[[introduction_encryption]]
==== Encryption

The MQTT specification does not specify any TCP/IP security scheme as it was envisaged that TCP/IP security 
would (and did) change over time. Although this document will not specify any TCP/IP security schema it will 
provide examples on how to secure an MQTT infrastructure using TLS security.

[[introduction_editing_convention]]
=== Editing convention
 TODO: Github Issue #45
